We are tracking October CPI inflation at 3.7% and November at 3.3%. The RBI’s 2H inflation estimate between 3.9-4.5% is thus likely to be overachieved. Also, as base effects normalize, high frequency growth indicators have turned modest too, bringing to surface the persistent slack in the economy. This should offer the RBI MPC comfort to hold rates at its December meeting.  
More than rates, the current liquidity concerns pose a bigger challenge. While the RBI has been stepping up OMO purchases (INR960bn announced so far), we expect it to do OMO purchases of US$30bn until March’19, thus creating excess demand for G-Sec in India.


 Softer inflation to comfort RBI Rising inflation was one of the key reasons for hiking rates in the June and August policy meetings. With INR depreciating and oil rising, inflation mongers were slowly becoming a majority again. But with more than seasonal food disinflation and excise duty cuts on petrol and diesel by the government, the inflation trajectory in 2H FY19 looks even lower than the RBI MPC’s recently downward revised estimates of 3.9-4.5%. 
Food disinflation to the rescue We grow more confident of our call that inflation is peaking off after September came in at 3.8%. We are tracking October at 3.7% after the cut in fuel prices and November at 3.3%. This backs our standing view that below-potential growth (adjusted for base effects) will continue to keep inflationary pressures in check. Oil prices too have stabilized now at relatively low levels and so has INR. To this, government measures of cutting excise duty on petrol and diesel have had a sanguine effect on the headline inflation trajectory. We thus expect the RBI MPC to stay on hold in its December policy meeting as inflation surprises on the downside.  
Our daily food price tracker shows that despite some mom increase in onion prices, food disinflation once again is likely to pull down the overall inflation trajectory. 
Below, we address the other upside risks cited by the RBI MPC around inflation trajectory: MSP: Despite much ado, in most cases, the ruling market price of the commodity is higher than the MSP, thus inflation impact (direct) is likely to be limited. Oil Price: From a CPI inflation perspective, retail oil price matters more. The government has recently announced steep excise duty cuts on petrol and diesel – high oil prices in a pre-election year may not be politically advantageous.  Growing global uncertainties, especially trade war escalation, are likely to have an adverse impact on both China and overall world GDP growth, thus putting brakes to global commodity prices.  Rising input prices: The sub-1 pricing power index in case of both PMI manufacturing and services clearly shows the slack in the economy, also shown by SA CU levels. So, firms are likely to take a margin hit rather than pass on higher prices to consumers.

Fiscal slippage: While we do expect the government to miss its fiscal deficit target of 3.3% of GDP for FY19 by 40bp, we do not see that as inflationary and expect the government to fund it by drawing down the cash surplus with the RBI rather than via higher market borrowings.  HRA: We expect the state HRA implementation to go on as smoothly as that of the centre. The RBI is likely to look through those statistical first round effects as well.  